# 2022: Week 2

### Particular.net: Message replay tutorial
https://getpocket.com/read/1838045106

Example of how replying is solved in particular.net solution.

### Firstround.com: Making Engineering Team Communication Clearer, Faster, Better
https://getpocket.com/read/3502939190

Talks about writing good Design docs and how to bring whole team together to discuss and evolve it.

#### Design doc that work
It is really important to make sure there is a process that gets people read the document.
Let junior engineers write the original doc and then the senior engineers act as editors.
Template: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_pBwcoq770GB_Jqxxv1orZzDZ5uaS1mOvfzqdTREwVY/edit?usp=sharing

* **Background:** What problem are we solving?
* **Design goals:** Requirements and goals of the project. Should include numbers like traffic assumptions, usage, uptime requirements...
* **System design:** Diagram of all the binaries, databases and third party services that design touches.
* **Design summary:** Summary of the solution in paragraph or two.
* **Design details:** Detailing subcomponents, code locations, testing strategies, internationalization, scaling tactics...
* **Tradeoffs made:** Disclaimers why certain choices are being made, what any negative implications might look like, limitations being taken into account, technical debt that might be earned along the way.

This format acts as an important forcing function for an engineer to have conversations with other members of the team who may be impacted or have input. They have to go through the motions of gathering information and socializing the project rather than just jotting something down in a vacuum.

First draft should have approval from all key parties before you send it out to extended group.

Create blank document, where people can list their questions about the design along with their name. Eaxmple: https://docs.google.com/document/d/16d9Fkr5ASJfwJ60e_Fa-HxxYNr3Rs74dFbcB76As7Z0/edit

#### In person review session
* choose moderator
* everyone should add questions to the Question doc before the meeting - this will be the agenda
* everyone is welcome to sit and listen, but there is no talking unless you've read the design doc
* 45 minutes of full attention - no typing or emails
* if people think you've already made unchangeable decisions, they aren't going to be as candid in their feedback

### Daniel Gerlach: The Non-Productive Programmer (NPP)
https://getpocket.com/read/3518725302

#### Stuck in the comfort zone
Rely on deprecated rituals (10 minute builds).

#### Quantity of experience
More important is quality and deepness of experience. NPPs suffer from superficial knowledge.

#### "It works, is enough" Attitude
In the long term the product architecture becomes big ball of mud. Internal quality is the most crucial factor to keep a product healthy and maintainable.

#### Satisfied with Shallow understanding
As soon something is working, there is no aspiration anymore to investigate further.
NPPs don't understand their tools and own solutions fully - they accept magic.

#### Blindly follow mantras

#### Becoming productive
Do the opposite:
* get out of your comfort zone as often as possible
* don't be satisfied with it works
* don't be satisfied with magic
* when you learn it from books, learn it thoroughly, discuss it in order to make sure you grokked the material and its trade-offs.

### David Golden: How to mentor software engineers
https://getpocket.com/read/3524124417

Three categories:
* Goals: figuring out what they really want
* Situations: handling the unfamiliar or difficult
* Skills: getting promoted

#### Goals
To mentor goals ask questions - goals come from inside, they have to figure them out themselves.
To help someone understand their goals, ask question to help them reflect on their current situation, consider potential futures, and chart a course from one to another.

How well do the understand their current situation? What's going well? What's not going well? What about your role you enjoy most? What's the most frustrating? If you could change on thing, what it would be and why?

#### Situations
To mentor situations tell stories.
Sharing a related experience reassures a mentee that they are not alone.

#### Skils
To mentor skills, observe them in action. Code reviews, pair programming, observe how they participate in meetings, read what they've written.
The most important thing you can do is provide actionable feedback.

### Sudhir.io: Understanding UUIDs, ULIDs and String Representations
https://getpocket.com/read/3524120502

* UUID: 128bit number, generated at random.
* ULID: We use first 48bits (of 128) for timestamp. This ids sort correctly.

### The Practical Dev: Advanced Git Concepts You Should Know
https://getpocket.com/read/3524124366

* stash
* reflog
* cherry-pick
* rebase

### AbdulFattaah Popoola: 9 multipliers for boosting your team’s productivity

The ideal software delivery pipeline aims to reduce friction during the transformation of ideas into high-value features. Proper engineering systems and processes (ESPs) are the lubricants that minimize frictional losses due to undesirable surprises.

#### Observability
Logging, metrics, distributed tracing, telemetry, alerting.

#### Development loop
The code-build-test-debug loop is a good proxy for developer productivity.

#### Test Stability

#### Release Agility
An unpredictable value delivery system leads to erratic schedules.

#### Documentation
Documenting tribal knowledge increases team efficiency, breeds scalable knowledge-sharing culture, and boosts team resiliency.

#### Automated operations
t is a colossal waste of precious resources to have developers manually do what computers can do.

#### Experimentation
A culture of experimentation increases the probability of achieving product-market fit.

#### Hiring + onboarding

#### Infrastructure as code
Combining IAC with automation unlocks higher productivity benefits; IAC guarantees one source of truth, and automation ensures repairs consume a stable config.

