# 2021: Week 50

### Mauro Servienti: Isn't A supposed to come before B? On message ordering in distributed systems.
https://getpocket.com/read/3462651842

What can we do about message ordering problems in distributed systems?

#### Last message wins
Message can carry all data, including the updates that a previous message could have delivered + a timestamp.
Consumer can detect if a message is newer than its current status. Example: address changes.

#### Message versioning with retries
Messages are unordered in the queue but come with an attribute, for example, a version number, allowing receivers to understand how to order them.
Consumer store the latest accepted version and reject messages whose version is not "latest stored + 1". Rejected messages
are queued again.

Drawbacks:
* consumers require message ordering (which propagates to producers which have to add versions - coupling)
* retries are inefficient - the longer the sequence is, the riskier is that retries will take a significant amount of time

#### Sagas
Saga knows the business logic and knows expected sequence of messages. If the saga receives an out-of-order message,
it can store it in the saga data and schedule a timeout to later evaluate if it can process preciously received
out-of-order messages.

### David Boike: I caught an exception. Now what?
https://getpocket.com/read/1197404024

Three types of exceptions:
* transient - if retried immediately, exception is gone (`OptimisticLockException`)
* semi-transient - if retried after some time, exception is gone (`TimeoutException`)
* systemic - bugs (`NullPointerException`)

Handling:
* transient: retry mechanism (messaging)
* semi-transient: retry with delays (messaging)
* systemic: error queue

This way, we actually have to deal with **real** exceptions, others are fixed by themselves. Processes that fail in a message handler don’t have to result in an error message displayed to a customer. This relieves pressure on first-level support, as many exceptions happen behind the scenes without the customer’s knowledge, leading to a drastic reduction in support calls.

### Mauro Servienti: Businesses don't fail, they make mistakes
https://getpocket.com/read/2720861225

When handling a message causes a business rule violation, the system should not simply crash, instead it should reply with a message that clearly explains the failure reasons, and if it makes sense offering options to fix the failing scenario.
